a spring fans and welcome to another
installment of spring tips in this
hopefully very quick installment we're
going to take a look at some ways to
make your organization and your code
more consistent and I know that's a
particularly odd angle to purchase but
what what uh what I find is and what we
most artists have discovered is that
constraints give you freedom right being
forced to work within the constraints of
a part of a particular system allows you
more flexibility in other parts of the
system and it frees you to think about
the things that actually matter and so
spring boot is really amazing because it
gives you this this this impression of
being completely free to do whatever you
want while also providing ample
guardrails right these guard wheels help
you stay on the right path as you are as
you are working on the code and as
you're building systems and this is
particularly important for large
organization so what we're gonna talk
about today are just some things that I
find that are helpful to make it easier
for people to build services and
applications that that that scale right
in the large in terms of people not in
terms of like I mean they do scale in
terms of API requests but that's not
what I'm talking about I'm talking about
as an organization can your software
scale and so we're just talk about a few
things that help you with that and I'm
gonna start with some obvious things and
maybe some small things that you haven't
seen before
okay now today I'm just we're gonna
start by building a simple application
demo okay and we're gonna just use
spring boot 2.2 om3 I'm gonna bring in a
few different dependencies so I'll bring
in the configuration processor right
there it is I'm gonna bring in Lombok
okay and what else what else do we want
I think that's probably it
right so we'll hit generate seemed right
to me yeah okay I'll do that just a very
simple application nothing nothing
particularly interesting here we'll open
this up
Desktop was hard downloads demo idea
upon the next mm so we're building a
brand-new application and we're gonna do
something as trivial as possible we're
gonna see that um I'm not actually
demoing a particular thing I'm doing
things you can do with spring so the
first thing we're gonna do is gonna
build an application that prints out a
random number not a big deal but we can
do it right so let's do that okay there
it is
okay make sure we have the latest and
greatest here all right so we now have a
very simple application let's say that
we want to build an application that
when it starts up it injects a injects a
service that then you know number
service whatever very simple very
trivial obviously pointless some thing
okay so when are then we're gonna have
let's see void generate and okay
whatever I don't think there's a I'm
under no pretense about this being
something you'd need to write but it'll
demonstrate a few things for us so
private final thread local random new or
is it just thread local random dot get
current date okay actually you would
probably want to call that each time so
you'd say okay there you go
and we're gonna say thread local random
dot int or next int okay
what do use a bound okay so I'm gonna
create a bound here and the bound let's
say that's that's parametrize Abul it's
something that we want to have specified
when the application starts up and
specify that here and it'll be something
that we create in the constructor okay
so it'll be a thing that we can inject
your property and then there we go
alright so now we return this and we'll
say next okay good stuff
alrighty
so we've got now a very simple
application all we're doing is
specifying this bound why doesn't this
seem happy oh no beans upside yeah there
it's not a bean so we're gonna have to
specify this we're gonna provide a value
okay
so it's gonna come from a property
somewhere something is gonna configure
this bean with a value okay so I'm gonna
I guess I could put it in a property and
a string but one thing that I want is I
want this thing that produces a value
two to use a property to look up that
object so a very common approach here is
to extract that out let's say I wanted
this speed I wants to be numbers dot you
know random dot bound okay I better yet
keep a simple just numbers dot bound so
that's a property that I'm expecting
from this spring framework environment
and that means that I could put it in
the environment literally as an
environment variable I'm just going
numbers underscore bound it cetera it
could be here equals ten I can do
whatever one but this is a string right
you know your hope you're hoping that
when you extract this from the
environment that it is actually an int
and spring will have no problem coercing
it but you don't know all right there's
no guarantee there and also when you
when you type this there's no you know
there's no sense that this property
exists you don't know if it's there or
not and so very common thing to do is to
create a configuration processor sorry
is to use the configuration processor to
define configuration properties so let's
say class number properties
okay and I'm gonna say private int bound
so we'll just use Lombok here good and
we're gonna say at enable configuration
properties number properties doc class
okay so there we go and what we're doing
is we're telling spring hey I want to
create an object that has these
properties bound to things in the
environment so I'm going to say that
this is gonna use the prefix called
numbers so it'll say numbers dot bound
so now when spring starts up sooner when
I compile the code let's all do here on
invoke the terminal and do a maven clean
install or maybe clean package okay
good stuff so there it is so now notice
that the the gray the highlight behind
this has gone away alright um make sure
we're all on the same page here to make
this font a little bit bigger there we
go 6 so you can see that South numbers
don't bounce equals 10 and you can see
the the property is now defined in this
object this object is using a Lombok so
it has getters and setters and all that
stuff right I can inject number of
properties and I got a gotten getters
and setters so all that is there it's
based on this property I can now just
inject this here as an object it's a
bean right spring is actually gonna
create a beam of this object and so
rather than having this string the
reference thing here I can say NP and
then I'll say NP dot get bound right so
there we go I've done a couple things to
have created a number service completely
pointless and I've created a some
properties to define that number service
all right so now I can inject this
number service somewhere and use it okay
so number demo
and I'm going to inject the number
service here create a constructor event
listener application ready event public
void run and then this dot number
service dot generate random number and I
just want to log out the data so I'll to
add component at mama for J okay and
item number alright I say a long to info
random number equals remember that is a
completely pointless demo I think we can
agree it's absolutely fair to say that
but what have we done we've created two
objects when is the configuration
properties that hold properties from
this property file so now let's say I
want to type this again well now if I go
to the property file application of
properties and I hit control space that
configuration processor that we added to
the bill here this thing here a spring
boot configuration processor that's
actually Germany an indexed file in the
index file it's being used at runtime by
the IDE it's an index file that has JSON
and four it's basically a JSON structure
that gets stored in the build and that
is being used by the IDE to in assist it
in Auto completing for example this
right I can say numbers pound equals ten
and you can see when I command click on
this when I highlight and hover over
this and command click on it it takes me
to this object alright navigate to this
configuration properties object so it
knows about this object and the
mechanism that we're doing this we built
this generically it's in spring boot
proper it's not a feature of intelligent
only so you can use it NetBeans you can
use it in the spring tool suite so it's
just a very good way for developers to
be very easily consume your application
you can consume configuration now in
this case I've kind of here's my if you
will with my client the thing that's he
using
the infrastructure the service and the
properties that I've configured and
here's the actual configuration itself
the thing that I want fine I've got the
producer in the consumer in the same
code page nominally these things are you
know maybe they they live in the same
code page but they might even just live
in separate packages but let's suppose
that I actually wanted to reuse this
number service and this configuration
across multiple jars for whatever reason
obviously this is a demo just indulge me
okay so if I want to reuse this I'd like
to extract it out into a library okay so
let's go back to the initializer and
we're going to create a numbers okay and
we're gonna create a numbers
auto-configuration okay so here we're
gonna add we're gonna have Lombok and
the spring configuration processor and
that's it we're gonna hit generate and
all we're doing is we're creating a new
jar and we go back here ueo numbers Auto
configuration
okay and so what I'm doing is I'm gonna
I'm gonna this is a Springwood app but I
want this as a library so what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna delete all that okay
your package
sorry package numbers I'm gonna create
eight numbers auto-configuration
okay numbers out of configuration and
it's going to be a class that spring
boot will read up will start up and in
that configuration we're going to
register a beam of type number service
okay so we need to have this here
okay and we don't want to rely on
classpath scanning so I'm gonna take off
this service annotation there and I'll
just do at beam okay
now the same problem I need the pointer
to the number of properties itself
okay so I'll pass that in all right so
now I've registered this beam to a
configuration and now what I want is for
this configuration to get registered
whenever somebody has this library on
the class path so this is easy this is
I'm gonna go to the resources director
I'm gonna create a new directory here
called meta in and I'll create a new
file in there called spring net
factories and here I'm going to use an
attribute this is a service loader
mechanism in spring okay so this
resources meta F spring that factories
is going to result in this you know it's
gonna look up these files in all the
different jars it's gonna find this
attribute and here I can just list any
auto configuration that I want it to
care about so I'm gonna create this one
I'm gonna copy the reference to this go
to my spring two factories and there we
are okay so now I've told it about my
numbers Auto configuration and now I
want to consume this dependency in my
code right so I'm gonna actually what am
I gonna do I'm gonna get rid of the
stuff that makes this a so-called fat
jar and application I'll get rid of all
that I don't want that I'm gonna leave
in this stuff I'm gonna leave in the
spring boot starter now normally in this
case you wouldn't want your starter your
dependent to your auto configuration to
in turn specify the version of spring
boot it shouldn't manage that right it
shouldn't insist upon that so you might
actually this case want to bring in the
spring boot bomb the bill of materials
that way you're actually bringing it in
as another dependency it has the effect
of level setting your dependency
versions without having any effect on
the tree being used by the people who
are consuming your library but I'm gonna
just keep it simple because I don't have
to specify things like the compiler
plug-in and all that stuff so I'll leave
this all here
but there are there's good documentation
on the specifics of what you would do
here so spring food starter wiki how to
you know there's a there you go
spring boot starters so you know these
are starters let's see creating out
there you go there you go
so you when you create starters there's
two bits right there's the actual
auto-configuration that's what we're
doing right now and there's the starter
dependency but when you use when you
create your own starter do not start
your module names with spring boot so
you know that because that way it's
easier for people who are using maven
that way they don't discover your thing
wax and they don't actually autocomplete
spring boot - your API when we might do
the same thing in the future right so
that's a that's a very convenient thing
right okay so we're gonna we're gonna
avoid doing that right now we're
creating an auto configure module right
um actually I named it Auto
configuration let's just name it Auto
configure okay so Auto configure and I'm
gonna call this numbers okay or spring
tips there you go talk numbers Auto
configure and so this has the
dependencies that we want we've got the
configuration processor okay
we need the spring boot starter
dependency and that's it right and
that's I think the basic setup one
configuration metadata okay so we're
going to call this the this is the Auto
configure dependency right this is the
dependent it has an auto configuration
the reason that there's a distinction
between an auto configuration jar and a
starter is that the starter brings in
the dependencies that are required to
make this work whereas the auto
configuration has the code so in this
case in theory I could create more
dynamic auto configuration let's say
that I have let's say that for some
reason we're on a JVM that doesn't have
thread local random okay so I could say
okay conditional on class thread local
random dot class and what that means is
that this configuration would only
activate if that type was on the COS
path that would actually stop this from
being registered right it will stop the
configuration class etc from being
registered and that's very useful you
can create very dynamic application so
you can say if this library which you
are testing you know whose presents are
testing for by by virtue the fact that
this class is implied by the dependency
if that classes on the library then
register these beans okay so in our code
we of course the classes on the library
class path but they don't need to be
right let's what's a what's a silly
example that I can bring in let's say
that I register a dependency here using
spring web flex okay so I'm going to use
the reactive spring boot starter web
flux okay and I'm gonna make this scope
optional it's true okay so I'm bringing
this dependency it's compiled against my
code and now I'm gonna register another
beam I'm gonna say at beam router
function okay
or maybe it's scope provide it there you
go
okay let that build maven okay we start
come on writer function there we go
server response Oh
okay so what I'm doing is I'm creating a
functional reactive endpoint and it'll
just serve up the number dot get number
new handler function and I'm gonna use
this number service here okay
so I'm using the reference to that si
server response dot okay dot sync body
and s dot generate random member okay
and we can actually do a single pin map
number
all right so there we go we've got now a
singleton map we've got a random number
add this there okay so now I've got a
random number now do I want this
functionality all the time maybe the
users of my library won't have Spring
web flex on the class back so I could
say conditional on class you know what's
the thing I guess router function my
insider function to type that may not be
there so this beam will only be
registered if this type is true and
we're not assuming it's true so if you
install if you use our dependency
numbers Auto configure in your code then
this won't this won't be activated by
default unless you also bring in spring
boots starter webhook so let's try this
out let's go to our console here okay
may even install
let's see which file all my tests you
should definitely tests but uh I don't
have time
even they even clean install
all right so that's now installed now I
want to reuse this functionality so
let's go see what happens if I bring
them in to my other application over
here I'm gonna go to my build and bring
in that auto configuration okay
good so there's this and the version is
probably the same one is up here right
because I don't think I've changed it
right so there we go okay so there's
that so now I'm bringing in the auto
configuration
I changed the package when I wrote this
code so let's make sure we comment out
that type goody
may even re-import
number service there it is so copy a
reference to this
package numbers import
right
did I make the type not public I think I
did Oh No
so number auto-configuration
okay of it
okay good stuff for now we install all
that
go back to here there you go the type in
our public so now I can inject the bean
right and I'm not I don't configure
there's no place in this code where I'm
actually configuring that dependency why
is it still unhappy is this method not
public Oh Josh don't take the lazy way
okay there we go so now we go back here
there we go so now it's public as well
so now I can run the same code without
having to auto-config without having to
configure those dependencies now if
Emily wants to reuse this basic behavior
all right no loose that's not found
router function Oh
so it's trying to load this because it
has the class in the method what I
should have done is I need to cordon
this off into a nested configuration so
I can say static class web config and I
that way it's not gonna it'll load the
outer class and not the inner one right
so public static there we go and I want
this to be only loaded they want the new
nested class to be loaded only if this
typewriter function is on a class path
okay
should we start
okay so there you go it started up and
there's no error because it didn't try
loading the web endpoint but I want that
web endpoint and so this is where we get
into the concept of a starter so it's
you can see that I have two modalities
in my auto configuration I've got the
default modality which is like the set
of beans at a run and evaluated by
default when you start the application
and I've also got this web but modality
this web sort of behavior that runs only
if there's a certain package on the
class path or something module on the
class path and so I want to be able to
support or export that functionality to
the world and the way you do that is you
create your own starter dependency so
I've got an auto configuration
dependency you can create a starter
dependency as well and a starter
dependency just brings in the things
that you want to be able to activate
certain bits of functionality you can
see that we do this in spring boot all
the time so we say spring food you know
what's a good thing um spring boot
starter web right that jar is otherwise
basically empty there's nothing in it
right the the jar itself doesn't have
any functionality except for a maven
palm this palm intern specifies you know
that we need these libraries to make up
the support for web flex so it brings in
spring boots starter brings in the web
flex support etc etc etc so you can
create you own maven starter and you you
know make sure you don't name it with
spring boot it has to be like you know
you're a coop ID and then for the
artifact of the numbers spring boot
starter not spring good starter numbers
right and that that would bring in only
the correct versions of the dependencies
that you want so again you might use the
maven bomb there the maven Bill of
Materials dependency and you might say I
want to have numbers Springwood starter
web right and so that would be the that
would if somebody brought that in
there's no Java code in there it would
only have the effect of transitively
forcing me even to add spring boots
started web flex to your application so
that you know and it would also bring in
the numbers Auto configure but bringing
this Auto configuration and it would
bring in spring boots or web flex so
that you would have everything you would
need to run this
in configuration class right so let's we
can kind of shortcut that process we can
actually go to our demo and explicitly
add in web flex to activate that
functionality so there we are now we've
done the same thing
now that condition will evaluate to true
we can restart this
okay so you can see that the
applications up and it hasn't shut down
it hasn't stopped because it's still
running because we created an in point
so I think it's called number number
there you go
okay so we created a rest endpoint
dynamically based on Auto configuration
and that we didn't have to write any
code on the client side as we use that
to do that so this is this building of a
starter building of Auto configuration
building of Auto configure modules this
promotes reusability across the
organization it's a very useful way to
ensure that you have consistency across
your different teams and in the
organization you might extract out
things like your security configuration
into a separate jar you might extract
out things like logging and auditing and
things that you have want done a
consistent way across the organization
right maybe the way you've configured
connection pools for your particular
legacy db2 instance or something like
that whatever right though these things
are all sort of up to you to to to
decide okay now the left via the work
I've done so far
covers I think we've looked at a lot of
different things here and we've looked
at a couple things we've looked at the
auto configuration we looked at building
your own auto configuration jars and
starters we looked at all these kinds of
things that you could do for a while the
next I think the logical next step a lot
of people don't take is that you can
actually build your own spring
initializer right so let's say let's say
that I had gone through the process of
building a starter which is just as I
say just a maven pom that brings in your
auto configure and it brings in your
your your the prerequisites required
from the ambient you know dependencies
out there spring booster web plugs and
so on let's say I'd done that now I want
to have my own dependency on the
initializer right start out spring that
I oh well
you could you could work with us and - a
very very lengthy process we can add
your dependency here if you've
established there's a large community
that it's open source that I get to
consistently maintained but if you just
want to have your own initializer for
your organization so start that your
organisation that IO
but we can do that right and you can do
that yourself you don't need anything
special from us so you can go to
github.com spring io and you'll see that
spring an incisor is actually a
generator first of all it's an API
that's represented by this project here
spring IO initializer and then it's a
and then there's a particular customized
implementation of it called startup
spring IO that's this thing here and
that's the start client in the start
site and this is actually the
integration with that generator that
generates is generic it doesn't have to
be used for Springs and the user
interface doesn't have to look like ours
right it can and if you want to talk
like ours you can clone this this is
Apache 2 license to open-source please
use it and and so I've got this clone to
my local machine here right SSDI start
dot I shouldn't you know I should show
you this nope
there you go it's start client and start
site and I even have it open here in my
IDE okay and so what you need to know is
that this is the this has the two
project start client start site and the
only thing I've done is I have gone and
I've created a I've gone to this
property file called application that
yamo an application that llamo is where
we customize the look and feel of the
generator it's actually where we provide
the different dependencies that belong
here right so you can see this is
actually a fairly deep I mean hundreds
and hundreds of lines of llam
that configures all the different jars
the check boxes and then the Bill of
Materials dependencies that are assumed
there all that stuff right so Java
versions the maven the Gradle all that
stuff that could be specified we
specified here right
and there are customizations as well you
know Java code
that maybe you don't care about maybe
you don't want you can you can get rid
of them you can add them you can remove
them so for example we have custom you
know there's certain things that require
other work it's not just as simple as
choosing a checkbox so for example we
customize the Gradle build if you add
dev tools for example or if you
customize the maven build if you had the
dev tool so some things are not there
there's not a one-to-one correlation for
example so these are these are things
that get added to your build but are not
quite as simple as just taking the
configuration that property file and
then then emitting a dependency right
it's actually requires a build materials
it requires that other libraries be
there or whatever and you can express
all these things through these different
customizers okay so I I don't want to we
could we could and should do a whole
episode on just how to customize this
but suffice it to say most of your work
will be here so what I've done is I've
gone and I've created a arbitrarily
named bootiful section okay for a
fictitious library called go long and
the idea is called go along now I'm
gonna actually change this so we've got
go long lips we've got our auto
configuration you shouldn't put your
auto configuration here it should be the
starter dependency okay but just so we
have something we can look at let's try
it out so numbers auto-configuration st
numbers auto configure okay taking all
that taking that to here and okay so
it's ID GUP ID is st and the this was
gonna be called here and snapshot okay
random alright so there we go I've got
my random number dependency added this
to this in your sizer and I'm going to
customize I'm gonna run it by going to
the start site on the command line here
so I'll say terminal CD start site
maven spring boot run
okay
and now if I go to localhost 8080 oh did
I have a
no let's just assume I have a release
version here 1.2 that I would release
okay
oh I've got something else in port 8080
of course I'd close that one out or that
again
there we go
so
it's down the metadata the first time
there we go so now there's our to that
oh we can say I want to see all the
dependencies and there's our new section
bootiful go along if I hit generate hit
update dependencies that gets added to
this
and then hit generate and you can see
that's downloading a new zip file what
do we call this we called this is this
demo so open this one and what is this
file look like
all right so there you go you can see it
says STI numbers auto-configure the
issue of course is that I haven't
specified the version
it isn't it is assumed that you have
attached to your dependency here a bill
of materials dependency that would then
get registered automatically in your
dependency management section so the
version would be specified in that
Dannette bill of materials and so you
should also create one of those a bill
of materials is merely a dependency that
has a dependency management section that
looks kind of like like our build
materials for spring boot right we've
got one as well so there's documentation
on how to do that as well but you can
see how this would work right you
dependent you add this and you then tie
that dependency here to a let's see the
bomb all right so you can see that these
demands sometimes these dependencies
reference a bomb name right and the bomb
is a thing or it's the bomb dependent
dependencies different definitions okay
Hegel and just eyes are bombs right so
if you want any of the azure
dependencies they will specify that my
bomb is equal to Azur and then when that
gets specified then this gets added to
your maven build it'll say I'm gonna
automatically add in the dependency
management section call Microsoft Azure
as a zero screen blue bomb Azur that
version and if you're using spring boot
1.5 for 22.0 then you'll get the azure
bomb Oh to four and if you're using
spring boot to that one oh release then
you'll get to that one 2 etc so this
logic tells you no spring Buddha's are
automatic is smart enough to know okay
you want the version of this bomb that
matches the version of spring boot and
we expect that to mean be maintained and
you should do the same for your
organization okay so with that we have
our own custom Edition sizer we can
customize this to our hearts content of
course and you can reskin it and change
it and so on and by the way we have
people that work on this full-time right
there's a team of people that work on
the initializer so we're always keen on
getting feedback if you want want to
contribute back if you have a big idea
it's an open source project we're happy
to hear from you one thing you know this
is a pretty trivial demo I could I think
we can all agree on that same thing for
my um same thing for my
auto-configuration
right but my auto-configuration I've
customized it I formatted it I'm using
IntelliJ right so if I do this let's
just get rid of all this you know claps
it all together like that okay there's
my there's my formatting it does that it
good formatting do we appreciate that I
checked in the code like this with no
spaces all right just like that I used
VI or something like that and I didn't I
didn't care about spacing I don't think
that's very good I don't think that's
very nice I don't think people in like
that so I might do command alt L on the
Mac for IntelliJ and command hotel will
automatically format the code but what
about the people using eclipse or
NetBeans what about their code for
matters what if they then we format the
code to be to their liking in that
environment is that gonna be good do we
want that result and they want to check
that in that means that when somebody
looks at the code the only thing that's
gonna be different from one environment
to the other is the formatting which is
a
not great thing right it's gonna give
you the perception that something has
changed when in point of fact something
it has not um and what about my my
choice of lines here I've rapping like
this right and I want things like that
you know I want more types of
annotations on the same line do you like
that is that you know does that make you
feel better about your trust in me your
confidence in me that I've done this to
your code so again you can't you know
the nice thing about spring mood is that
there is no particular IDE requirement
it's just anything that supports debate
and may even or gradle and as a result
you have full latitude in doing you know
complete latitude do you know using
whatever tolling you want and you're
sort of up to the whims of whatever ID
the person editing code is using at that
point right and so one thing that we
want is for people to not focus on this
kind of stuff just not worry about it
so there's a nice tool that we developed
for our own uses and which I Josh I'm
also using for my books I used it for
the reactive spring book just
extensively so all my code uses this
tool it's called spring Java format so
okay spring Java format
and it sits under spring io spring -
Java format and in order to use it you
just add this plugin to your build okay
actually better yet let's do this okay
so I'm gonna go to my build in my auto
configuration here and I'll go to the
build section and again you might have
an organizational dependency that
requires this get added to automatically
to all the builds okay so we'll add this
here cool so now we've got spring out
Java we've got a Oh spring Java Foreman
spring down for me even plugin and we go
here and now let's just try and do it
maybe in clean package on my code let's
see what happens
look at that it wouldn't even compile
right it's upset it says spring you have
to run spring Java format apply because
these things don't match the formatting
expectations of the organization of my
project so I say maven spring Java
format bye
okay now let's go look at our code all
right there it is there you can see it's
been reformatted the way that the spring
boot team uses for their code right now
of course I don't like I still don't
like that route is on the same - get
right so you can do that right and this
is you got wrapped in another line so
that might be a clue to you and me but
this should be extracted out into a a
lambda maybe or method reference or
something right yeah do what you can to
make that code easier because you're at
the whims of this reformatted so let's
now see okay
body so do I like that and my okay with
that let's see what happens well it's
actually in the idea isn't it
okay so you can see it got wrapped to
the new line but it's better all right
so you you can see that because I did
this it was forced to preserve it on the
next line this got wrapped back so now I
can have that there one more time okay
so you can see it does a very good tuck
behind the scenes this engine is using
the Eclipse format or at least I think
it was used it was at one point and so
we're actually using the Eclipse
formatter and we're formatting our code
in a consistent way so now there's no
question about what the right formatting
is there's just one kind of formatting
let's just agree tabs spaces whatever
it's already taken care of for us don't
worry about it just work on the code
that matters to you all right and it'll
actually break the build so you know it
forces people to get in the habit of
applying maven spring Java format clone
and apply right so now all things being
equal assuming everything else is valid
I can do maven clean package and my my
my build is correct let's say I go here
and do that and that now what happens
right it's telling me this file no
longer matches formatting expectations
so we do maybe in a spring dome format
cleaning package that I like to do that
because that makes it so that when I
test my local code I format at first
then I run the tests and that way if it
passes its passed everything and I can
just commit it and it goes to the CI
environment okay so there we go we've
looked at a number of different things
you can use to ensure you've got
consistency we didn't get a chance to
look at the details of creating a
starter creating a bill of materials
dependency that's well documented in the
documentation there are wiki's and
things like that but but you should know
that that's the thing you should do
that's what I want to know because then
that lets you disseminate your your
dependencies throughout the organization
and one great way to do that is through
the spring and initializer and this
finish size allows people to access
consistently your auto configuration
remember you can specify that certain
dependencies be added to all projects
generated by organization so maybe that
security auto configuration that we that
we hinted at earlier maybe you have that
as a required dependency every project
generated on your custom spring
initializer must have this dependency
just like the tests libraries in spring
boot are automatically added no matter
what there's no way to opt out of that
right this can help ensure
organizational standards it helps get
ensure consistency you can also
customize the maven build you could add
this maven spring java format plugin for
example or you could you can make sure
that all the projects are seeded at a
particular parent dependency instead of
arms right so you can do some really
interesting things and now you have a
central place to do this you could also
add support for creating you know Cloud
Foundry files or docker containers or
whatever you can add the Aven Jib plugin
right
lots of good options I hope you'll I
hope you'll give all this stuff ago I am
I think all the stuff is pretty cool I
don't know how many people know about
the spring Java format plugin I really
like it it just it's one of the nice
things about go the gold language is
that there's a something called go
format geo fmt and it just takes away
the pain of like is this the right way
right Python is very sensitive to space
as well and it just takes away the pain
of like is
in tabs or spaces who cares just write
softer let's get it to production don't
worry about that right it looks the same
it works the same the the Maven spring
java format plugin has very little in
the way of opportunities from
reformatting or for customization it
that's the whole point it is it is to be
said it is to be the house style right
it just takes away any discussion of is
this the right way let's just focus on
just writing software right let's not
fight about this data or the the rest
it's arbitrary all right thanks
everybody thanks so much for watching I
hope you got something out of it and as
usual we'll see you next time
you